# LAB 3:  PART 3: GROUP WORK REFLECTION

**For the group AWK project, I’ll admit I was a little nervous at first. I’ve worked with groups before and I do enjoy group work *however, I’ve never done any group work with programming*. That’s right - throughout my years in college, this is the first time where I would have to work with a group on one big coding project. Starting off, as a group we created a discord server so we can easily communicate with each other, send files, etc. In order to come up with a dataset that we all genuinely wanted to work with, we got a study room in the library and met there after class *(our idea was that if we chose a dataset that we all liked, it would make working on this project more enjoyable)*. While choosing a set we made sure that it was organized and clean with the same number of rows and columns, had enough to be able to create questions, and was large enough for all six members to work with. We found out that most datasets we found were just not enough for us to create questions on; since we wanted our questions to be challenging enough we wanted a dataset that could provide that. Finally, we choose the cars.csv dataset that we have now because it was very large and it had many different components that it allowed for an abundance amount of questions we could create.**

**When it came to tools, we decided to stick with just using awk and since everyone was willing to work on their own question alone we did not have to come up with any schedules whatsoever. Everyone simply worked on their own program and if they needed help they could ask in the discord - and I think this worked out perfectly. Additionally, one of our group members wrote out common awk functions that we could use like array reading, sorting, and filtering that anyone could use if they wanted. For my own question, I decided to go with using my own functions. I didn’t do anything extreme, simply reading all data into an array; *that would be the filtering part*. Then for the sorting part of the question, I used a for loop to read through the array of horsepower and find the max. I did this a total of 5 times to find the top 5 horsepower cars. Every time I would find the new max I made sure to save the index of the country and car type so that I could reflect that in my list at the end. Nonetheless, I was successfully in completing my awk and as a group, we did a good job helping each other. I really did enjoy working in a group for the first time and I don’t think anything went bad. I had wish that instead of creating one small awk project we would have been tasked with creating one large awk project as a group so we could practice having multiple people working on one source code.**
