
# LAB 2: PART 1 REFLECTION

**Using Bash, compared to Java, was a very tough challenge. I was able to successfully recreate the same program for lab one (printing all due dates) using the same variables and achieving the same output. However, when it came to recreating the new program as described in this lab, I had a challenging time recreating it one-to-one. For example, I found that the syntax for Bash was very strict compared to Bash because the terminal didn’t seem to recognize much. For instance in order to calculate time in Java you can simply import the local date class and the ChronoUnit class. With these two imports, you can get the current date and create different dates (due dates of labs and quizzes) and then calculate them. On the other hand, figuring this out on Bash took me far too long. Searching for help or reading the manual wasn’t any help either because after a while I realized that the manual provided was for gawk and not regular awk. On top of this, the mac version of awk does not allow for a lot of the features that windows do. This means that calculating the date was not possible using the help I was getting online, I had to find the way mac does it. Unfortunately, this means that simple tasks became a hassle because there was no quick solution like the gawk version. I was able to figure out how to accept user input but allowing the user to change and choose a date was impossible for me. No matter what I tried, and what I looked up, there seemed to not be a simple solution. Therefore, while Java took 32 lines to do lab one and bash only took 17, recreating the functions and program provided in lab two would have taken far more in Bash. This is because the java program in the second lab is far more advanced with multiple user inputs, regex, functions, etc. This is something that I think no one should try to do in Bash because it’s simply not useful or time efficient. Java’s use of imports and a vast amount of help sources makes it the ideal choice for this program. It is definitely possible to do the java program without any imports but that would be like recreating the wheel from scratch and would have required multiple lines of work. To summarize, I prefer java over bash because bash lacked a lot of features on mac that could simplify the work needed and its syntax was much more complicated. I do not believe I could have recreated the second lab program using bash at all.**
